Refactor gateway example to use APIRule instead of Api (#158)
kyma-project/examples: gateway/README.md

## Installation

This section contains installation steps on how to expose a service through the console UI, and manually, using kubectl.

### Exposure through the console UI

#### Create a service

1. Open the [Kyma console](https://console.kyma.local/) and choose or create the Namespace in which you want to deploy the example.
2. Click the **Deploy new resource** button, select the `deployment.yaml` file from the `service` directory in this example, and click **Upload**.

#### Expose a service without authentication

1. Select the **Services** button and click on the name of the service you created. The name should be the same as the service name in the `deployment.yaml` file - **http-db-service**.
2. In the **API Rules for http-db-service** section, click the **Expose API** button.
3. Fill the **Name** text box.
4. Fill the **Hostname** text box and click **Create**. The name you entered is referred to as the **\{hostname\}**. The domain next to it is referred to as the **\{domain\}**.

> >**NOTE:** There are two ways of exposing a service without authentication - `noop` (default) and `allow`. You can switch the method in the dropdown in the **Access strategies** section.

Author: There are no such plans

6. In the **Access strategies** section, click on the dropdown and select the **OAuth2** field. 
7. Fill the **Required scope** text box with `read, write`.
8. Click the **Create** button.

#### Fetch OAuth2 token

1. On the Namespace main page, click **Deploy new resource** button, select the `oauth2client.yaml` file from the `service` directory in this example, and click **Upload**.
2. Fetch the access token with required scopes. The access token in the response is later referred to as **\{oauth2-token\}**. Run:

    ```bash
    curl https://oauth2.{domain}/oauth2/token -H "Authorization: Basic ZXhhbXBsZS1pZDpleGFtcGxlLXNlY3JldA==" -F "grant_type=client_credentials" -F "scope=read write"
    ```

#### Test the APIs with OAuth2 authentication

```bash
# To perform a test without the token, use the following command:
curl https://{hostname}.{domain}/orders
# > {"error":{"code":401,"status":"Unauthorized","request":"1915853b-9780-4751-b26d-903a179e2941","message":"The request could not be authorized"}}

# To perform a test with the token, use the following command:
curl -ik https://{hostname}.{domain}/orders -H 'Authorization: Bearer {oauth2-token}'
# > 200 []
```
 

> >**NOTE:** If you are using the Kyma deployed locally, add the `{hostname}.kyma.local` to your hosts file.

Reviewer: same as above

### Manual exposure using kubectl

> There are additional prerequisites to exposing a service manually using kubectl:

Reviewer: I would suggest adding an additional prerequisite here. The user has to have kubectl configured and pointing to the proper cluster before they start following the steps below. IMHO we should not assume, that they know how to do that, or that it is automatically done. I suggest adding a quick `configuration` guide to check if the kubeconfig is configured (`kubectl cluster-info`) and if not then fetch the kubeconfig from the Console UI and export it.

Author: I'm not sure if a guide on how to fetch Kyma kubeconfig should be a part of this example. I will add a link to the guide in our documentation, though.

Reviewer: You are right. A link to the already existing guide in our documentation is a great idea

> - [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/) in version specified in the [Kyma documentation](https://kyma-project.io/docs/1.12/root/kyma#installation-install-kyma-locally).

Reviewer: We should not use a specific version of Kyma documentation here, as the required kubectl version might change between Kyma versions. Instead use the link: https://kyma-project.io/docs/#installation-install-kyma-locally

```

#### Test the APIRules without authentication

To perform a test, use the following command:

```bash
curl -ik https://http-db-service.$KYMA_EXAMPLE_DOMAIN/orders
# > 200 []
```

#### Expose a service with JWT authentication

> **NOTE:** If you followed the steps in **Expose a service without authentication** section, the previously created APIRule will be updated after applying the templates.

The JWT authentication settings require to provide a list of trusted issuers. To create an APIRule with the JWT authentication settings, run: 

```bash
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f - 
apiVersion: gateway.kyma-project.io/v1alpha1
kind: APIRule
metadata:
  labels:
    example: gateway-service
  name: http-db-service
  namespace: $KYMA_EXAMPLE_NS
spec:
  gateway: kyma-gateway.kyma-system.svc.cluster.local
  rules:
    - accessStrategies:
        - config:
            jwks_urls:
              - http://dex-service.kyma-system.svc.cluster.local:5556/keys
            trusted_issuers:
              - https://dex.$KYMA_EXAMPLE_DOMAIN
          handler: jwt
      methods:
        - GET
        - POST
        - PUT
        - DELETE
      path: /.*
  service:

>     host: http-db-service.kyma.local

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    host: http-db-service.$KYMA_EXAMPLE_DOMAIN
```

Author: I will remove the whole domain part, as we have an awesome functionality, which fetches the domain automatically!

Reviewer: Great idea! And truly awesome functionality! 😆

    name: http-db-service

>     port: 8017

Reviewer: Should include `EOF` in the last line of this yaml. Without it, the resource won't be created. Look at [this example (step 2)](https://kyma-project.io/docs/components/api-gateway/#tutorials-expose-and-secure-a-service-register-an-o-auth2-client-and-get-tokens)

### Exposure through the console UI

#### Create a service

1. Open the Kyma console and choose or create the Namespace in which you want to deploy the example.
2. Click the **Deploy new resource** button, select the `deployment.yaml` file from the `service` directory in this example, and click **Upload**.

#### Expose a service without authentication

1. Select the **Services** button and click the name of the service you created. The name should be the same as the service name in the `deployment.yaml` file - **http-db-service**.
2. In the **API Rules for http-db-service** section, click the **Expose API** button.
3. Fill the **Name** text box.
4. Fill the **Hostname** text box and click **Create**. The name you entered is referred to as the **\{hostname\}**. The domain next to it is referred to as the **\{domain\}**.

>**NOTE:** There are two ways of exposing a service without authentication - `noop` (default) and `allow`. You can switch the method using the dropdown menu in the **Access strategies** section.

#### Test the API Rule without authentication

```bash
curl -ik https://{hostname}.{domain}/orders
# > 200 []
```

> >**NOTE:** If you use Kyma locally, add the `{hostname}.{domain}` to your hosts file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
>**NOTE:** If you use Kyma locally, add `{hostname}.{domain}` to your hosts file.
```

#### Expose a service with JWT authentication

1. If you **didn't** follow the steps in **Expose a service without authentication** section, go straight to step 2 of this instruction. If you did, you must delete the previously created APIRule. Select the **API Rules** button, click on the trash can icon next to the APIRule and confirm.
2. Select the **Services** button and click on the name of the service you created. The name should be the same as the service name in the `deployment.yaml` file - **http-db-service**.
3. In the **API Rules for http-db-service** section, click the **Expose API** button.
4. Fill the **Name** text box.
5. Fill the **Hostname** text box. The name you entered is referred to as the **\{hostname\}**. The domain next to it is referred to as the **\{domain\}**.
6. In the **Access strategies** section, click on the dropdown and select the **JWT** field. 
7. Click on the **Configure identity provider...** dropdown and select the **Default** configuration.
8. Click the **Create** button.

> #### Fetch JWT token

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Fetch JWT
```

Reviewer 2: JWT acronym already includes the word `token`.

1. On the main Kyma page, click the **General Settings** button.
2. In the **Kubeconfig** section, click the **Download config** button.
3. Open the downloaded file in a text editor, select the value in the **token** field and copy it to the clipboard.
4. The token is later referred to as **\{jwt-token\}**.

#### Test the APIs with JWT authentication

```bash
# To perform a test without the token, use the following command:
curl https://{hostname}.{domain}/orders
# > {"error":{"code":401,"status":"Unauthorized","request":"1915853b-9780-4751-b26d-903a179e2941","message":"The request could not be authorized"}}

# To perform a test with the token, use the following command:
curl -ik https://{hostname}.{domain}/orders -H 'Authorization: Bearer {jwt-token}'
# > 200 []
```

> >**NOTE:** If you use Kyma locally, add the `{hostname}.{domain}` to your hosts file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
>**NOTE:** If you use Kyma locally, add `{hostname}.{domain}` to your hosts file.
```

6. In the **Access strategies** section, select the **OAuth2** field from the dropdown list. . 
7. Fill the **Required scope** text box with `read, write`.
8. Click the **Create** button.

#### Fetch OAuth2 token

1. On the Namespace main page, click the **Deploy new resource** button, select the `oauth2client.yaml` file from the `service` directory in this example, and click **Upload**.
2. Fetch the access token with the required scopes. The access token in the response is later referred to as **\{oauth2-token\}**. Run:

    ```bash
    curl https://oauth2.{domain}/oauth2/token -H "Authorization: Basic ZXhhbXBsZS1pZDpleGFtcGxlLXNlY3JldA==" -F "grant_type=client_credentials" -F "scope=read write"
    ```

#### Test the APIs with OAuth2 authentication

```bash
# To perform a test without the token, use the following command:
curl https://{hostname}.{domain}/orders
# > {"error":{"code":401,"status":"Unauthorized","request":"1915853b-9780-4751-b26d-903a179e2941","message":"The request could not be authorized"}}

# To perform a test with the token, use the following command:
curl -ik https://{hostname}.{domain}/orders -H 'Authorization: Bearer {oauth2-token}'
# > 200 []
```
 

> >**NOTE:** If you use Kyma locally, add the `{hostname}.{domain}` to your hosts file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
>**NOTE:** If you use Kyma locally, add `{hostname}.{domain}` to your hosts file.
```

> >**NOTE:** If you are using the Kyma deployed locally, add the `{hostname}.{domain}` to your hosts file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
>**NOTE:** If you use Kyma locally, add the `{hostname}.{domain}` to your host's file.
```

### Manual exposure using kubectl

There are additional prerequisites to exposing a service manually using kubectl:

> - [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/) in version specified in the [Kyma documentation](https://kyma-project.io/docs/#installation-install-kyma-locally). It needs to be configured to point to your Kyma cluster. For more info, see [this document](https://kyma-project.io/docs/components/security/#details-iam-kubeconfig-service-get-the-kubeconfig-file-and-configure-the-cli).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/) in the version specified in the [Kyma documentation](https://kyma-project.io/docs/#installation-install-kyma-locally). It must be configured to point to your Kyma cluster. For more information, see the document about [getting the kubeconfig file](https://kyma-project.io/docs/components/security/#details-iam-kubeconfig-service-get-the-kubeconfig-file-and-configure-the-cli).
```

Reviewer 2: We're changing our approach to links in docs to make them more descriptive. Here is the [issue](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/issues/8342).

Author: I wasn't aware of this change, thanks!

> - A JWT token fetched from the Console UI which is later referred to as **\{jwt-token\}**. For more details, see the **Fetch JWT token** section in the **Exposure through the console UI**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A JWT fetched from the Console UI which is later referred to as **\{jwt-token\}**. For more details, see the **Fetch JWT** section in the **Exposure through the console UI**.
```

> - If you run Kyma locally, add the `http-db-service.kyma.local` to your hosts file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If you run Kyma locally, add the `http-db-service.kyma.local` to your host's file.
```

#### Create a service

1. Export your Namespace as a variable. Replace the `{namespace}` placeholder in the following command and run it:

   ```bash
   export KYMA_EXAMPLE_NS="{namespace}"
   ```
   

> 2. Export your Kyma domain as a variable. Replace the `{domain}` placeholder in the following command and run it::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Export your Kyma domain as a variable. Replace the `{domain}` placeholder in the following command and run it:
```

    ```bash
   export KYMA_EXAMPLE_DOMAIN="{domain}"
   ```

3. Apply the `deployment.yaml` file from the `service` directory in this example.

   ```bash
   kubectl apply -f ./service/deployment.yaml -n $KYMA_EXAMPLE_NS
   ```

#### Expose a service without authentication

> Run this command to create an APIRule:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Run this command to create an API Rule:
```

```bash
kubectl apply -f ./service/api-without-auth.yaml -n $KYMA_EXAMPLE_NS
```

> #### Test the APIRules without authentication

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Test the API Rules without authentication
```

To perform a test, use the following command:

```bash
curl -ik https://http-db-service.$KYMA_EXAMPLE_DOMAIN/orders
# > 200 []
```

#### Expose a service with JWT authentication

> > **NOTE:** If you followed the steps in **Expose a service without authentication** section, the previously created APIRule will be updated after applying the templates.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **NOTE:** If you followed the steps in the **Expose a service without authentication** section, the previously created API Rule will be updated after applying the templates.
```

> The JWT authentication settings require to provide a list of trusted issuers. To create an APIRule with the JWT authentication settings, run: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The JWT authentication settings require to provide a list of trusted issuers. To create an API Rule with the JWT authentication settings, run: 
```

```bash
cat <<EOF | kubectl apply -f - 
apiVersion: gateway.kyma-project.io/v1alpha1
kind: APIRule
metadata:
  labels:
    example: gateway-service
  name: http-db-service
  namespace: $KYMA_EXAMPLE_NS
spec:
  gateway: kyma-gateway.kyma-system.svc.cluster.local
  rules:
    - accessStrategies:
        - config:
            jwks_urls:
              - http://dex-service.kyma-system.svc.cluster.local:5556/keys
            trusted_issuers:
              - https://dex.$KYMA_EXAMPLE_DOMAIN
          handler: jwt
      methods:
        - GET
        - POST
        - PUT
        - DELETE
      path: /.*
  service:
    host: http-db-service
    name: http-db-service
    port: 8017
EOF
```

> Or manually adjust the `https://dex.kyma.local` domain in the `trusted_issuers` section of the `api-with-jwt.yaml` file to fit your setup and run:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also manually adjust the `https://dex.kyma.local` domain in the `trusted_issuers` section of the `api-with-jwt.yaml` file to fit your setup. After adjusting the domain, run:
```

```bash
kubectl apply -f ./service/api-with-jwt.yaml -n $KYMA_EXAMPLE_NS
```

#### Test the APIs with JWT authentication

```bash
# To perform a test without the token, use the following command:
curl -ik https://http-db-service.$KYMA_EXAMPLE_DOMAIN/orders
# > {"error":{"code":401,"status":"Unauthorized","request":"530f300a-8269-4564-8d0c-9816c692e7c4","message":"The request could not be authorized"}}

# To perform a test with the token, use the following command:
curl -ik https://http-db-service.$KYMA_EXAMPLE_DOMAIN/orders -H 'Authorization: Bearer {jwt-token}'
# > 200 []
```

#### Expose a service with Oauth2 authentication

> > **NOTE:** If you followed the steps in **Expose a service without authentication** or **Expose a service with JWT authentication** section, the previously created APIRule will be updated after applying the templates.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
>**NOTE:** If you followed the steps in the **Expose a service without authentication** or **Expose a service with JWT authentication** section, the previously created API Rule will be updated after applying the templates.
```

> Create an APIRule with the OAuth2 authentication settings:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create an API Rule with the OAuth2 authentication settings:
```

```bash
kubectl apply -f ./service/api-with-oauth2.yaml -n $KYMA_EXAMPLE_NS
```

#### Fetch the OAuth2 token

> 1. Create an OAuth2Client:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Create an OAuth2 client:
```

    ```bash
    kubectl apply -f ./service/oauth2client.yaml -n $KYMA_EXAMPLE_NS
    ```

> 2. Fetch the access token with required scopes. The access token in the response is referred to as the **\{oauth2-token\}**. Run:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Fetch the access token with the required scopes. The access token in the response is referred to as the **\{oauth2-token\}**. Run:
```

> 2. Fetch the access token with required scopes. The access token in the response is referred to as the **\{oauth2-token\}**. Run:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Fetch the access token with the required scopes. The access token in the response is referred to as the **\{oauth2-token\}**. Run:
```

    ```bash
    curl https://oauth2.$KYMA_EXAMPLE_DOMAIN/oauth2/token -H "Authorization: Basic ZXhhbXBsZS1pZDpleGFtcGxlLXNlY3JldA==" -F "grant_type=client_credentials" -F "scope=read write"
    ```

#### Test the APIs with OAuth2 authentication

```bash
# To perform a test without the token, use the following command:
curl -ik https://http-db-service.$KYMA_EXAMPLE_DOMAIN/orders
# > {"error":{"code":401,"status":"Unauthorized","request":"530f300a-8269-4564-8d0c-9816c692e7c4","message":"The request could not be authorized"}}

# To perform a test with the token, use the following command:
curl -ik https://http-db-service.$KYMA_EXAMPLE_DOMAIN/orders -H 'Authorization: Bearer {oauth2-token}'
# > 200 []
```

### Cleanup

Run the following command to completely remove the example and all its resources from the cluster:

```bash
kubectl delete all -l example=gateway-service -n $KYMA_EXAMPLE_NS
kubectl delete apirules.gateway.kyma-project.io -l example=gateway-service -n $KYMA_EXAMPLE_NS
kubectl delete oauth2clients.hydra.ory.sh -l example=gateway-service -n $KYMA_EXAMPLE_NS
```

## Troubleshooting

> **Could not resolve host:** If you run Kyma locally, make sure you have added the hostnames used in this example to your hosts file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Could not resolve host:** If you run Kyma locally, make sure you have added the hostnames used in this example to your host's file.
```

**No healthy upstream:** Check if the Pod you created is running. Run:

```bash
kubectl get pods -n $KYMA_EXAMPLE_NS
```

Wait until all containers of the Pod are running.

**Problems with the JWT authentication:** Make sure you have provided proper domain name in the **Expose a service with JWT authentication** step.

**Upstream connect error or disconnect/reset before headers:** Check if the Pod you created has the istio-proxy container injected. Run this command:

```bash
kubectl get pods -l example=gateway-service -n $KYMA_EXAMPLE_NS -o json | jq '.items[].spec.containers[].name'
```

> One of the returned strings should be the istio-proxy. If there is no such string, the Namespace probably does not have Istio injection enabled. For more information, read [this file](https://kyma-project.io/docs/components/service-mesh/#details-sidecar-proxy-injection).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
One of the returned strings should be the istio-proxy. If there is no such string, the Namespace probably does not have Istio injection enabled. For more information, read the document about the [sidecar proxy injection](https://kyma-project.io/docs/components/service-mesh/#details-sidecar-proxy-injection).
```

# > {"error":{"code":401,"status":"Unauthorized","request":"530f300a-8269-4564-8d0c-9816c692e7c4","message":"The request could not be authorized"}}

# To perform a test with the token, use the following command:
curl -ik https://http-db-service.$KYMA_EXAMPLE_DOMAIN/orders -H 'Authorization: Bearer {oauth2-token}'
# > 200 []
```

### Cleanup

Run the following command to completely remove the example and all its resources from the cluster:

```bash
kubectl delete all -l example=gateway-service -n $KYMA_EXAMPLE_NS
kubectl delete apirules.gateway.kyma-project.io -l example=gateway-service -n $KYMA_EXAMPLE_NS
kubectl delete oauth2clients.hydra.ory.sh -l example=gateway-service -n $KYMA_EXAMPLE_NS
```

## Troubleshooting

**Could not resolve host:** If you run Kyma locally, make sure you have added the hostnames used in this example to your hosts file.

**No healthy upstream:** Check if the Pod you created is running. Run:

```bash
kubectl get pods -n $KYMA_EXAMPLE_NS
```

Wait until all containers of the Pod are running.

**Problems with the JWT authentication:** Make sure you have provided proper domain name in the **Expose a service with JWT authentication** step.

> **Upstream connect error or disconnect/reset before headers:** Check if the Pod you created has the istio-proxy container injected. Run this command:
> 
> ```bash
> kubectl get pods -n $KYMA_EXAMPLE_NS
> ```
> 

Reviewer: We can get rid of the fist command completely
```suggestion
**Upstream connect error or disconnect/reset before headers:** Check if the Pod you created has the istio-proxy container injected. Run this command:

```bash
kubectl get pods -n $KYMA_EXAMPLE_NS
```
**Upstream connect error or disconnect/reset before headers:** Check if the Pod you created has the istio-proxy container injected.
```

> **Upstream connect error or disconnect/reset before headers:** Check if the Pod you created has the istio-proxy container injected. Run this command:
> 
> ```bash
> kubectl get pods -n $KYMA_EXAMPLE_NS
> ```
> 

Reviewer: We can get rid of the fist command completely
```suggestion
**Upstream connect error or disconnect/reset before headers:** Check if the Pod you created has the istio-proxy container injected.
```

> kc get pod {pod-name} -n $KYMA_EXAMPLE_NS -o json | jq '.spec.containers[].name'

Reviewer: Because there is a label on a pod, we can use it to simplify this **Upstream connect error or disconnect/reset before headers:** troubleshooting to only one line:
`kubectl get pods -l example=gateway-service -n $KYMA_EXAMPLE_NS -o json | jq '.items[].spec.containers[].name'`
Also, we should not use `kc` in the example 😄

Author: That's not even mine! Fixing

Reviewer: That is true. It is probably mine 😱But your PR is a great opportunity to have it finally fixed 😄
